Add initial rendition of GSoC project memos for 2024 (#106)
pybamm-team/pybamm.org: content/gsoc/2024/_index.md

### Expected outcomes

* Completion of a cookiecutter template that can be used to create new PyBaMM-based projects
* Documentation and usage examples for the template in the form of a Sphinx-based website and Jupyter notebooks
* CI/CD pipelines for testing automation and deployment for the correct functioning of the template
* Release infrastructure that allows the template to be published on PyPI and installed via `pip`, mirroring PyBaMM's own release system and versioning

### Desired skills

* Experience with Python packaging and distribution for pure-Python packages and modern Python projects will be beneficial but is not required
* Familiarity with cookiecutter templates and the `cookiecutter` Python package (or other templating packages, such as `cookieninja`, `copier`, `cruft`), including the use of `jinja2` as a templating engine
* Basics of CI/CD pipelines and DevOps for Python projects

### Difficulty and suitable project length

* Easy. This project is suitable for a 175-hour duration.

### Potential mentors

* [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)
* [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)

### Potential mentors

>  * [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)

Reviewer: Potential mentors appears twice

### Expected outcomes

* Completion of a cookiecutter template that can be used to create new PyBaMM-based projects
* Documentation and usage examples for the template in the form of a Sphinx-based website and Jupyter notebooks
* CI/CD pipelines for testing automation and deployment for the correct functioning of the template
* Release infrastructure that allows the template to be published on PyPI and installed via `pip`, mirroring PyBaMM's own release system and versioning

### Desired skills

* Experience with Python packaging and distribution for pure-Python packages and modern Python projects
* Knowing how to use cookiecutter templates and the `cookiecutter` Python package, including the use of `jinja2` as a templating engine
* Basics of CI/CD pipelines and DevOps for Python projects

### Difficulty and suitable project length

> * Easy. This project is suitable for a 175-hour duration.

Author: Oops, forgot to add this section completely. Would you like to be a primary mentor or a secondary mentor on this one?

> * Easy. This project is suitable for a 175-hour duration.

Reviewer 2: Secondary mentor on all projects, unless a project lacks a primary mentor 😬

> * Easy. This project is suitable for a 175-hour duration.

Author: Sure, happy to add myself as a primary mentor for now here – but since I am listed as primary for all of the ones till now, I'll press pause on that 🙂 (I'm assuming that a name being listed first corresponds to them being primary).

As a stretch goal, the packaging infrastructure for PyBaMM should be updated to include a `pytest` test suite that can be run by users to check that their installation is working correctly for users who do not have access to a source installation of PyBaMM, i.e., through `pybamm.test()` or similar.

#### Expected outcomes

* All test files and modules migrated to use `pytest` in the code base, in a way that is consistent with modern Python software engineering and testing practices – either manually or via automated migration tools
* Improvisation of test coverage
* Utilisation of advanced testing techniques based on advanced `pytest` features and `hypothesis` as a framework
* Deprecate some legacy test invocation methods such as `run-tests.py` in favour of the `pytest` path finding and test case discovery mechanisms

#### Desired skills

> * Experience with Python API design and testing, test-driven development, and continuous integration
> * Test coverage and code quality analysis tools
> * Some experience with `unittest`, `pytest`, and `hypothesis` is desirable, but not required
> * Git version control, managing pull requests, and code reviews, as well as the GitHub workflow for open-source projects

Reviewer 2: Remember, GSoC is meant for Open-Source beginners, haha!
```suggestion
* Experience with Python and unit testing (`unittest`, `pytest`, and `hypothesis`) in Python.
* Some experience with test-driven development, continuous integration, and coverage tools is desirable, but not required.
* Git version control and GitHub workflow for open-source projects.
```

Author: Makes sense!

### Difficulty and suitable project length

* Medium. This project is suitable for a 175-hour duration.

### Potential mentors

> * [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)
* [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)
```

@Saransh-cpp, would you like to be added here at this time?

As a stretch goal, the student can explore the possibility of cross-compiling PyBaMM wheels for different platforms and architectures that are not currently supported, such as ARM-based systems for Linux and macOS.

#### Expected outcomes

* A new build backend for PyBaMM, either `scikit-build-core` or `meson-python`
* Revamped build scripts, configuration, and possibly a complete rewrite of the `setup.py` code
* Retained support for all platforms and architectures that are currently supported by PyBaMM
* Ensuring that there is a reliable mechanism for editable installations in CI and local development, with or without the use of the `-–no-build-isolation` command-line flag

#### Desired skills

* Experience with Python packaging for compiled extensions will be highly beneficial
* Build systems such as CMake, Meson, and/or Ninja

> * Knowledge of compilers and toolchains, and how to set them up on different platforms
> * Setting up efficient CI/CD pipelines and DevOps workflows across platforms and architectures

Reviewer 2: Applicants can always learn while doing
```suggestion
* Knowledge of compilers and toolchains, and how to set them up on different platforms is desirable, but not required.
* Experience with CI/CD pipelines and DevOps workflows across platforms and architectures is desirable, but not required.
```

### Difficulty and suitable project length

* Hard. This project is suitable for a 350-hour duration.

### Potential mentors

> * [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)
* [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)
```

#### Expected outcomes

* All test files and modules migrated to use `pytest` in the code base, in a way that is consistent with modern Python software engineering and testing practices – either manually or via automated migration tools
* Improvisation of test coverage
* Utilisation of advanced testing techniques based on advanced `pytest` features and `hypothesis` as a framework
* Deprecate some legacy test invocation methods such as `run-tests.py` in favour of the `pytest` path finding and test case discovery mechanisms

#### Desired skills

* Experience with Python and unit testing (`unittest`, `pytest`, and `hypothesis`) in Python.
* Some experience with test-driven development, continuous integration, and coverage tools is desirable, but not required.
* Git version control and GitHub workflow for open-source projects.

### Difficulty and suitable project length

* Medium. This project is suitable for a 175-hour duration.

### Potential mentors

> * [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)
> * [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)
* [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)
* [Valentin Sulzer](https://sites.google.com/view/valentinsulzer)
```

#### Expected outcomes

* All test files and modules migrated to use `pytest` in the code base, in a way that is consistent with modern Python software engineering and testing practices – either manually or via automated migration tools
* Improvisation of test coverage
* Utilisation of advanced testing techniques based on advanced `pytest` features and `hypothesis` as a framework
* Deprecate some legacy test invocation methods such as `run-tests.py` in favour of the `pytest` path finding and test case discovery mechanisms

#### Desired skills

* Experience with Python and unit testing (`unittest`, `pytest`, and `hypothesis`) in Python.
* Some experience with test-driven development, continuous integration, and coverage tools is desirable, but not required.
* Git version control and GitHub workflow for open-source projects.

### Difficulty and suitable project length

* Medium. This project is suitable for a 175-hour duration.

### Potential mentors

* [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)
* [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)

> * [Valentin Sulzer](https://sites.google.com/view/valentinsulzer)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Valentin Sulzer](https://sites.google.com/view/valentinsulzer)
* [Arjun Verma](https://github.com/arjxn-py)
```

Reviewer 3: Feel free to let me know in case it only feels more valid to list just adequate number of people.

Author: We can add more people to the list for now, and then remove later based on the addition of more projects

#### Expected outcomes

* A new build backend for PyBaMM, either `scikit-build-core` or `meson-python`
* Revamped build scripts, configuration, and possibly a complete rewrite of the `setup.py` code
* Retained support for all platforms and architectures that are currently supported by PyBaMM
* Ensuring that there is a reliable mechanism for editable installations in CI and local development, with or without the use of the `-–no-build-isolation` command-line flag

#### Desired skills

* Experience with Python packaging for compiled extensions will be highly beneficial
* Build systems such as CMake, Meson, and/or Ninja
* Knowledge of compilers and toolchains, and how to set them up on different platforms is desirable, but not required.
* Experience with CI/CD pipelines and DevOps workflows across platforms and architectures is desirable, but not required.

### Difficulty and suitable project length

* Hard. This project is suitable for a 350-hour duration.

### Potential mentors

* [Agriya Khetarpal](https://agriyakhetarpal.github.io/)

> * [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Saransh Chopra](https://Saransh-cpp.github.io/)
* [Arjun Verma](https://github.com/arjxn-py)
```
